Preparatory meeting for the Sagemath European H2020 grant application
=====================================================================

Dates
=====

September 08 and 09 of 2014

Purpose of the meeting
======================

Brainstorm on the precise scope and consortium for our upcoming
`Sagemath European H2020 grant application
<https://github.com/sagemath/grant-europe/>`_, start writing the
proposal, and split the work.

Location
========

Salle du 3ème, Bâtiment 425
`Laboratoire de Mathématiques d'Orsay <http://www.math.u-psud.fr>`_
Université Paris Sud, Orsay.

`How to come <http://www.math.u-psud.fr/acces.php>`_ (roughly 45
minutes by RER from downtown Paris).

Participants
============

- Miguel Angel Marco-Buzunariz (Profesor ayudante doctor), Universidad de Zaragoza

- Samuel Lelièvre (maître de conférences), Labo math Orsay, U Paris Sud

- Éric Gourgoulhon (DR CNRS), Laboratoire Univers et Théories, CNRS / Observatoire de Paris, Meudon

- Dmitrii Pasechnik (senior research fellow), University of Oxford

- Luca de Feo (Maître de Conférences), PRiSM, Université de Versailles

- Nicolas M. Thiéry (Prof), LRI, Université Paris Sud

- Florent Hivert (Prof), LRI, Université Paris Sud

- Thierry Monteil (CNRS), LIRMM, Montpellier

- Stephen Linton (Prof), University of St. Andrews

- Marc Mezzarobba (CR CNRS), LIP6 Université Pierre et Marie Curie

- Jean-Pierre Flori, `ANSSI <http://www.ssi.gouv.fr/>`_

- Simon King (postdoctoral research fellow), Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena

- Viviane Pons (Maître de Conférences), LRI, Université Paris Sud

- Mohamed Barakat, Universität Kaiserslautern

- Eugénia Shadlova, European Affairs Officer, Université Paris Sud

- Marcin Kostur (Prof), University of Silesia

Tentative program
=================

Monday
------

- 9:30 coffee
- 10:00 Welcome and word of introduction (Nicolas)
- 10:15 presentation of the call by Eugénia Shadlova (European Affairs Officer in Orsay)
- 11:00 Going round the table, and gathering the needs of the community
- 14:00 Lunch
- 15:00- Brainstorm on the proper proposal configuration, work packages

- Evening: dinner at the Gramophone

Tuesday
-------

- 9:30- More brainstorm, refinement of the title, mission statement,
  consortium, work packages, ...

Report
======

The meeting started by collating a list of the `needs <H2020/Needs.rst>`_ of
the participants and the communities they represented (Sage, GAP,
Singular, Pari), and where funding could help tackle those needs. It
was felt strongly that all of these might not fit well into the H2020
call in question, and it might be better to split the effort, namely,
to simultaneously apply for the H2020 VRE grant, and for the `COST
network grant <http://www.cost.eu/domains_actions/ict>`_.

Proposed COST network
---------------------

The latter shall meet "small" needs, such as funding for travel,
visits, Sage days, other meetings quite well, and allow to cover a
wider network of EU sites.

Tentatively the proposal is going to be prepared by Dima and Marco.


H2020 VRE grant application
---------------------------

It emerged that Nicolas/community vision for the proposal was hard to
match with the H2020 VRE grant call, because it was too focused on the
concrete implementation of a Virtual Research Environment, when the
call was about doing research about such environments. On the other
hand, Steve's vision of an application was much more fitting into the
call, being broader and more abstract; but also more fuzzy, and with a
more questionable adequacy with the team and its needs. We worked out
a `merge <H2020/WorkPackages.rst>`_ of the two visions.

Two important points of departure are:

- introduction of a *social* component into the project, investigating
  how the interaction within open-source collaborative development of
  mathematical software happens. The corresponding work packages are to be
  coordinated by `Ursula Martin <http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/people/ursula.martin/>`_ (Oxford).
- "abstracting" the work packages, making them less Sage technicalities-
  centric, and more fitting into the grant call.

The consortium structure was discussed and roughly decided upon (see
below). It will be a relatively small group of sites, with more than
one active person per site, and substantial project-related activities
going. Part of the rationale for this is the significant
administrative overhead imposed on each site. Given the widening in
scope, Nicolas and Steve agreed to share the burden of the lead, with
Steve being administratively the official overall lead, while Nicolas
would focus more on leading the concrete work packages of the grant.


Further, we worked on `punchlines <H2020/PunchLines.rst>`_ for the proposal,
a tentative title was chosen, and a draft mission statement written.
See the `draft of proposal <H2020/proposal.pdf>`_.


The big picture
---------------

`A draft of big picture for Virtual Research Environment proposed by the project <H2020/Pictures/TheBigPicture.jpg>`_

Consortium
----------

- St Andrews (coordinator)
  Steve
  GAP / ...

- Paris Sud / Paris Saclay
  Nicolas Thiéry/Viviane Pons

- Logilab (with support from the Systematic cluster)
  (contact: Nicolas)

- Bordeaux: Pari / Sage
  Lead: Vincent Delecroix

- Kaiserslautern? (Singular)
  Nicolas: visit in early october

- Oxford (Sage / Social aspects / ...)
  Ursula Martin? Otherwise Dima
  (contact: Dima/Steve)

- Warwick (LMFDB, ...)
  John

- University of Washington at Seattle
  (Sage Math Cloud)
  (contact: Steve)

- University of Silesia
  Marcin
  Training, physics, IPython, cloud, cuda, ...

- RISC?
  (leaders in computer algebra, theorema??? / ...)
  Manuel Kauers?, Veronika Pillwein?
  (contact: Nicolas)

  Participants: Martin Rubey

- Ghent?
  Strong experience with massive teaching with Sage

- Cambridge University Press?

- IPython
  (contact: Nicolas)
